iOS Jailbreak Documentation

Introduction:
iOS and iPadOS devices by Apple have proven to be very popular due to their ease of use, stability, and streamlined experience. For many people, this is acceptable; they just want their device to work as expected every time. However, for those that want to use their devices to the limits and express their creativity, Apple devices are quite limiting. Luckily, there is a solution: jailbreaking!

Jailbreaking refers to gaining an elvated level of privilege on a system, or in other words, do things normally not allowed by the manufacturer/developers/etc. Jailbreaking is not unique to Apple devices, just about every system imaginable has been hacked in some way. Different terms can be used, such as "rooting" on Android or "homebrewing" on video game consoles, but it is the same concept either way.


What you should already know:
This guide assumes you have the following basic background:
	-Knowing how to backup your device using a computer.
	-Knowing how to DFU restore in the event of a bootloop.


Is jailbreaking illegal or dangerous?
A common misconception of jailbreaking is that it is illegal. However, in the U.S., the US Copyright Office declared jailbreaking to be an exception to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Of course, it is possible to do illegal things with jailbreaking, however even just a web browser can allow one to do illegal things.

Another common misconception is that jailbreaking is dangerous. Jailbreaking by itself is very safe, and with proper procedures and common sense, one will not have issues with jailbreaking.


Getting started:
First, you will need to find the device model and iOS version of your device. You can do so by navigating to the following on your device:

Settings > General > About

Look for "iOS Version" and "Model Name", take note of these somewhere.


Finding a jailbreak:
Go to this site and use the information you found prior to navigate the chart.

https://ios.cfw.guide/get-started/

Some devices and iOS versions do not have a jailbreak as of now.


Steps after jailbreaking:
After jailbreaking, you should have an app called "Sileo". This is a package manager. Open it, and do any updates it asks for.


Repos:
To add a new repo to Sileo, go to repos, click on the '+' symbol, and type in the URL for the repo.


Tweaks:
To install a tweak, navigate to its page in Sileo and click on the install button. Installing a tweak may install other tweaks known as "dependecies". Some tweaks may not allow you to install them due to compatibility checks.


Paid tweaks:
Some developers will charge money for tweaks. If you choose to purchase such a tweak, you will need to create an account with the repo the tweak is hosted on and add valid payment info. Sileo integrates with several repo payment platforms.


A warning about piracy:
There are repos which provide free downloads to tweaks that are normally paid. It is highly recommended not to use these, not only because piracy is illegal, but also because these repos have been known to spread malware. 


What to do in a bootloop?
If your device restarts while jailbreaking, look for an option such as "Disable Tweaks". If it boots up with this enabled, try uninstalling the last tweak you installed.


Jailbreak detection:
Some apps like Pokemon GO implement jailbreak detection, banning your account if you attempt to play while jailbroken. There have been bypasses released, but it is like a cat and mouse game. If you use these apps, be careful.


Removing the jailbreak:
To completely remove the jailbreak, just do a DFU restore.


Reference:
This page was written with my experience and https://ios.cfw.guide/.